# AI Image Generator

**AI Image Generator** is a web application that allows users to generate
AI-powered images based on prompts. Built with **Next.js**, **Supabase**,
**TanStack Query**, and the **Hugging Face API**, this app provides a seamless
experience with real-time notifications, prompt history, and favoriting
features.

## Features

- **Prompt-Based AI Image Generation**: Users can create unique AI-powered
  images by entering a prompt.
- **Real-Time Notifications**: Active users receive instant notifications
  whenever a new image is created.
- **GitHub Authentication**: For a unique approach, the app requires users to
  log in via GitHub.
- **Image History**: Users can view all images they have previously generated.
- **Favorites Collection**: Users can save their favorite images to a collection
  for easy access.
- **Optimized Image Loading**: Uses Supabase's image loader for improved
  performance.

## Pages

- **/feed**: Displays images generated by all users, where users can explore and
  interact with images.
- **/history**: Allows users to view their previously generated images.
- **/collection**: A collection of favorite images saved by the user.

## Setup and Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   `git clone https://github.com/unaygney/ai-image-generator.git` and navigate
   to the project directory with `cd ai-image-generator`.

2. Install dependencies: `npm install`.

3. Set up environment variables. Create a `.env` file in the root directory and
   add the following:

   - `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL=<your_supabase_url>`
   - `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=<your_supabase_anon_key>`
   - `NEXT_PUBLIC_HUGGING_FACE_API_KEY=<your_hugging_face_api_key>`
   - `DATABASE_URL=<your_database_url_key>`

4. Run the development server: `npm run dev`.

5. Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:3000` to view the app.

## Usage

- **Creating Images**: To create images, users must log in via GitHub. After
  logging in, users can enter prompts to generate images.
- **Favorites and History**: Users can view all previously created images in the
  **/history** page and access their saved favorites in the **/collection**
  page.
- **Image Download**: Click on any image to open a modal with the option to
  download or favorite it.

## Limitations

⚠️ **Note**: The app uses serverless functions with a 1-minute timeout limit on
the Hobby plan. In cases where image generation takes longer, a timeout error
may occur. This limitation was ignored to keep the project simple.

## Credits

This project was created based on the design and requirements from
[DevChallenges.io](https://devchallenges.io/).

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file
for details.

## Links

- **Live Demo**:
  [AI Image Generator](https://ai-image-generator-lovat.vercel.app/)
- **GitHub Repository**:
  [Source Code](https://github.com/unaygney/ai-image-generator)
